Agents, skills, show.
Show us your
agent skills.
What are people at the top of the game
building with AI agents and how are they
doing it? Are they Claude maxing with
eight terminals open at once or
adversarially testing Opus 4.7 generated
code with Codex? Do they define suites
and forms of subagents or use agent
markdown and agent skills? We are on a
mission to find out.
All right, welcome everybody. Welcome
Hamel, Doug, John Berryman, Thomas Viki,
and Chris Von Beck. What is up?
Fam.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> Welcome.
>> That is an awesome intro.
>> How's it going?
>> I'm ready Claude mining, actually.
>> Well, that's actually part of the joke.
I'm thinking, I mean, we should talk
about rebranding slightly this this
series because it does it does look
like, you know, the X power team. What
do you do with open Claude this week
where you've got, you know,
a trillion Mac minis that like phoning
you
in the morning to get you to become
their delivery driver and these types of
things. And that isn't what this is at
all actually. What this has turned out
to be, I think by nature of
you know, who our friends are and our
our community are like long-time
builders who are trying to make sense of
how to use agents at the moment. The
things we're learning, the things that
are failing, the things we warn
ourselves about and and want to warn
others about.
And so firstly, I'd just love to welcome
everyone who's tuning in for the live
stream, everyone who's watching after.
I'm Hugo Bowne Anderson here with my
co-host with the co-most, Thomas Viki
from Pi MC Labs. What's up, Thomas?
>> How's it going? Excited for the show.
>> As am I. And this is the fourth episode.
It's the season 1 finale and we'll be
starting up again in a few more weeks.
And link is if you want to register for
the next episode in in June where we'll
be having John Berryman who's joining
today as an interlocutor.
We'll be there to present Isaac Slap
from Ken Show, Matt Palmer from
Conductor and X Replit. So that's going
to be a really fun fun one.
Just the obligatory if you like these
things, please do like and subscribe
and share with friends and leave a
comment as well. If you don't like these
things, no need to leave a comment at
all. It's the internet.
And we've linked to our Substack in the
description where you can find out more
about these types of things and keep
updated.
Finally, the Q&A will be in the Discord
just so we can continue the conversation
afterwards and I put the link to that in
the chat on YouTube as as well.
But without further ado,
let's jump in. First up is Hamel
Hussain.
What's up, Hamel?
>> Yo.
>> Great to see you, man.
>> Yeah. Yeah, great to see you. Great to
see everyone.
>> So Hamel is a machine learning engineer
with over 20 years of experience. Worked
at Airbnb, GitHub. We met back in the
day when we were both on the East Coast
US.
He was working at Data Robot.
He also did a bunch of early LM research
by OpenAI for now for code
understanding. One of the things
I really appreciate about Hamel.
He says he's working to bring data
science back to AI. So helping teams
debug, analyze, measure their systems
which he calls evals.
And this is the really big focus of what
what he does.
>> [clears throat]
>> I'm kind of projecting in a lot of ways,
but something I've always appreciated
about Hamel
which is relevant here is
he wants to help people build things and
maintain things that work for for them.
And it just so happens that to do that
looking at your data, looking at your
systems, um and doing it as now with
with AI is
>> [clears throat]
>> incredibly important. Um
Well, that's been a long kind of running
thread through your work, right, Hamel?
>> Yeah. Yeah, definitely.
I wish I could bring you along to every
public appearance that I have.
That'd be amazing.
>> Um well, maybe, you know, I We had Alan
Nicol on last week from Rasa who
he is building
uh tutorial videos for Rasa or the
natural language
>> [clears throat]
>> uh chatbot AI stuff he's doing.
In Claude code using Remotion, but it's
all agent-based and he has a skill which
deep fakes him into everything he writes
essentially and can build uh tutorial
videos from
the command line. Um so, all that's to
say is
in Claude code, maybe you can get your
own Hugo very soon. We'll see how that
goes.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
I I want to say too, Hamel is a
fantastic hype man himself. So, if you
ever go speak on one of Hamel's things,
he's also a great hype man.
So, it's nice to know great hype men.
>> Um and before we dive in with Hamel, I
Hamel did send me a demo video before
this which I just wanted to uh show
everyone. [clears throat]
>> Nice.
>> appreciate you sending that through.
That's generally Hamel's workflow. I'll
link to the GitHub repository for this
entire show series in the Discord and
you can find a skill which allows you to
build videos like that of you and your
friends using Replicate and SeeDance and
all these fun things. So, we do that for
all the guests.
Um So, without further ado,
we start off with two questions for each
guest, Hamel.
Um the first question is, "What do you
love about working with agents?"
>> Just makes a lot of things easier.
>> Beautiful. Um
"What frustrates you most about working
with agents?"
>> Um
I guess like hmm what frustrates me?
That's a good question.
I mean, I think it's so wonderful. It's
like really hard to put myself in the
space of like when I'm I don't find
myself frustrated. If anything, I find I
get frustrated with myself, not the
agent. But, um
I think it's
Yeah, it may may I think it's just like
steering
the agent sometimes like I would say
like I get the most frustrated with
writing, the tasks. When I try to do if
anytime I've tried to do large slots of
writing with AI, I kind of when I try
it, I sort of give up because it's
really difficult
for AI not to sound like slop unless
you're you are super in the loop. Um
And so and so like I don't do it. Like I
just sort of am very careful.
I use it more like an editor or or or
like a something that checks my writing
rather than something that wholesale
does the writing, especially long
writing.
>> I totally agree. And as you've pointed
out and we've discussed before,
a lot of different um models and systems
have their own smells. Claude currently
is
the term load-bearing is jumping out to
me a lot with um Opus 4.7. It's
um it's constantly referring thing to
things as load-bearing for me.
>> Now 4.8.
>> Well, exactly. We'll see what And with
steering, I'm I'm actually very
interested in in in
for 4.8. Um
It It looks like, you know, there may be
certain self-steering mechanisms,
whatever that that may mean, uh for it
to
inject into itself as it's as it's uh
doing things. I've actually
Um Jason might come on the show, Jason
Liu, in in a few weeks, and
he I mean, the steering he's doing with
with Codex is is is fascinating. His
blog posts, everyone should recent blog
posts, people should should check out.
But, steering in Codex I found a a lot
better recently than what I can do in
Claude code. Is that Have you had a
similar similar experience or
>> I mean, you know, I just like the UI of
Codex. Codex desktop, I think it's
unparalleled, meaning um
you know, it's just super polished and
very impressive.
I never thought I would leave the
terminal.
And then I tried Codex Codex desktop
app, and I was like, "Wow,
this is actually better." It like
shocked me.
>> Yeah.
>> Um cuz I I never thought I would say
that. Like, I really never thought I
would say that.
But, it just has so much functionality
in it
um
that's just useful
that I just Yeah, I think it's great.
So, I mean, like that sort of polish
just makes this really compelling.
Um
you know, like, it just like, you know,
it's it's a lot easier to do things like
computer use, for example, which is a
super useful thing.
Um and it works like natively on your
Mac. But, then also like all this the
like any like scheduling and they have
the best remote
system that I've used. So, like,
you know, you can run Codex headless on
your Mac mini, and then you can just
you can see all the sessions on your Mac
mini like in the sidebar.
Um or you can SSH, you can SSH through
the desktop app, which is a little bit
different.
But you can kind of get like this very
high fidelity sort of
like uh
like remote. And then it also works
fantastic. It's like a first-party thing
that works really good on your phone.
And I have kids. So I'm like on phone
all the time. Like I'm walking around,
whatever. Um,
it's so convenient. Cuz like the remote
control on Claude is like it's okay.
Like it has a lot of edge cases that
sort of does stop working on mobile.
Um, so like these there's all these
little things like that where
I'm like, "Wow, okay. Like this the UI
just makes it so convenient." And then
there's like one one other detail that I
think is super
uh important, which is
Okay, like there's the fast mode. You
know fast mode like Claude has like
some kind of extra fast and then Codex
has fast.
Whatever it's called. So, Codex will
allow you to trigger fast within your
billing, within your subscription.
So like your $200 a month subscription,
you can just
you can just toll your subscription at
1.5x.
But Claude makes you
like pay extra outside
the $200. So that's huge cuz like it
like, you know, you kind of
if you have a subscription, you're like,
"Well, you can just go faster with a
highest
like most frontier model." And that that
like that gap in user experience is like
very large. If you're if you're having
cuz like, you know, the sort of the fast
or the best models
at high thinking is quite slow.
So it just makes like a huge difference.
And like these all these things stack
together for me
>> Mhm.
>> uh recently to where I've like started
using Codex a lot more. Um,
you know, I I use Claude for like
writing and like creative tasks.
Um
just because I'm used to it. Just cuz
like
I don't know. Like I kind of understand
it.
But yeah, it's really pulled me away.
Um so that's mine. I'm curious like what
everyone else's
>> As as the interlocutor, do I get to like
jump in and ask questions of the guest,
too?
>> Well, please do. I I actually I I think
I do want to give Hamilton to show us
all his things. But yes, and just
quickly everyone, John our guest
interlocutor uh Arteris Labs um
wrote several books. You can see them on
the wall behind him. Relevant search he
co-wrote with with Doug here.
Uh and he was an early engineer on
GitHub Copilot as well.
>> Uh I didn't need an intro, but thank you
for that.
>> [laughter]
>> Uh so
is is Codex I haven't played with Codex.
I saw you posting about it. And like I'm
already behind on like the
the browser usage stuff. Like I I need
to catch up on that for a agent stuff.
But is this sort of like it's answer to
open claw or Claude co-work? Are people
using it? Sounds like remotely easy, but
are they you also using it for stuff
outside of development? I mean, like
there's all kinds of stuff.
>> I use it for like so many things. Um
I haven't found I got frustrated with
open claw.
Like I found that I was
I was spending more time making tools
for open claw and debugging open claw
than I was like using open claw.
And then I decided, you know what?
Forget it. Like And there's a there's a
the gap between that and like Codex and
whatever else you can do was is like
shrinking, right? Like I can have like I
can schedule automations with the Codex
desktop app even with the Claude desktop
app.
Um
you know,
I can connect them to Slack.
Whatever, like it's not really
Yeah, I just found that okay like I can
just
use like
the harness
that I use everywhere else. So, it's I I
just Yeah, and it was just like always
buggy all the time and I just I just
gave up. I'm like I don't like I don't I
don't do it.
>> I found something similar the amount of
ongoing maintenance I needed to do
around tool use memory. Some of the
memory stuff I actually really enjoy
doing. Um in terms of figuring out what
goes into daily logs, monthly logs, this
type of stuff and how to start building
vector DBs around my my claw memory. Um
but I have found the automations brought
in by the vendors
superior. Even like daily heartbeats
using you know Open AI and chat GPT. Um
the other thing I want to flag I mean
Hamel's just listed maybe five different
things um that
are really important with how we want to
work with these things and I I don't
think like Codex or not that's how Hamel
can do these things today. Um but you
know the the importance of
um being able to do things remotely for
example. And that's I did find Claude I
I could do that with very strangely
on the even when I was doing it remotely
sometimes it would ask for permissions
locally not remotely and I was stuck
there and it like unable to communicate.
>> That's really annoying though.
>> with it.
>> Oh, no.
>> Um
the other thing
I wanted to say before jumping into
what you'd like to show us is I love
that you said you know maybe you get
more frustrated with yourself. This
feels a bit Stockholm syndromey um but I
like it it does speak to kind of a point
Copathi and others made in that it's a
like
He said when I when the agent doesn't
seem to be able to do something I
actually think it's a skills issue. It's
about me not and
I partially agree with that. I
also I [clears throat] if you're having
to do a lot, a lot of work to do it, um
then perhaps in the product or in how we
build our skills
and workflows around it, um perhaps that
there can be more done than cuz I don't
I don't think you'll always want to be
going, "Oh, is this me or is it the
machine?"
>> Yeah, I mean, I think a lot of the
orchestration that you had to do is like
disappearing and going, you know, the
the harnesses are like absorbing them.
So, like, okay, like the
the Ralph Wiggum loop or whatever. So,
like, Claude has loop, Claude code has
loop, and like Codex has goal,
and whatever, and then like
today there's like workflow even with
Claude code. So, I think like
you know, they're just you don't have to
like orchestrate it yourself anymore.
>> Totally. And we'll be seeing so many
more developments there as well. I think
the one thing you didn't mention, which
I know is incredibly important to you,
very important to me, and a through-line
of a lot of the guests we've had, is
voice.
Um being able to speak um to your agent,
um and then get ideally rapid visual
feedback. We don't want the agent really
to speak speak to us, but of course
that's why HT- we rediscovered HTML
through building with agents, right?
That we inject voice into the agent, our
easiest way to communicate, getting
rapid visual feedback, um best way to
get information back, and then iterate,
right?
>> Yeah, one coding harness that I
surprisingly really like now is Devin
from Cognition. I used to not like it. I
used to hate it. I even wrote a blog
post that was like, "Oh, I think it's a
scam." Like, went early on. But, I
changed my mind on it. Um
it's just super polished. Like, the UX
is so good,
and it does So, it's like a wired up to
always try to show you a demo video
and screenshots of what it's done.
>> Mhm.
>> Which is like incredibly useful. I think
Cursor will do this, too, um
especially on like on the clouds. I
think this like idea of like
like the agent doing it's giving you a
proof of work that you can super easily
verify is huge. Like you That's like
what a good product is. Like if you can
eval it
quickly. Um
And so
yeah, I really like it. It has like the
best like most polished Slack
integration also. It's like I don't have
to worry about this stuff. I don't have
to like debug or like get get like uh
sort of frustrated. It is expensive
though. It's very expensive. Um
but you know, some is more is less
expensive than a human, I think. So
it's it's fine.
>> Yeah, and depending how much I mean,
I'll pay money to reduce headaches in my
life as well. Um it's one of my favorite
things to do actually. I One final
question before we jump in, you
mentioned Codex
uh in the terminal.
Do you use
an IDE still much? Do you write much
code?
>> I'll I'll pop up in Cursor sometimes
when I want to see things. Um
I I do like Cursor a lot. Like um
I just use it just like it's helpful to
see what files are being changed and
just be able to like kind of look at
things. Especially when I'm trying to
touch prompts or like the AI part of the
workflow, especially prompts.
I believe like you always have to look
at the prompts. Like if it's being
changed. Uh
So yeah, I'll I'll open it for any kind
of editing or reading of markdown or
anything like that. Uh I'll I'll have it
open.
>> Awesome. Um and the reason I asked that
is I mean once again, we want to kind of
let people know what how how builders
are building and you know, we had Wes
McKinney on our our first episode and he
rarely he's like, you know, what's an
IDE? Hillary Mason in the second episode
was like, I still use an IDE all the
time. Brian Bischof as well. Um who's
he's here to heckle and troll in in the
chat. Everyone jump into Discord and
introduce yourself and heckle with Brian
as as well.
So it's it's really interesting to see
what's up there. And I love your dictum
read the prompt or show me the you know
the the effing prompt
as well. And one of the reasons I I
still feel I need to do that so much is
LLMs totally over over specified prompts
when they don't trust themselves. When I
get you know Opus for example
to write a skill like I'll do a workflow
say can you create a skill it'll like
over specify in the wildest way and not
essentially not trust
a future version of itself, right?
>> Yes. Yeah, so a lot of skills that you
see out there
um I believe are made for Twitter.
Like and the author's not using it at
all.
Okay, so they're just like they just
went to Cloud Code and they say hey
create a skill for like
whatever like XYZ
and then just post it on Twitter like
here's my skill.
And then what you often see is that
skill only has one commit.
It's like you know after and it stays at
one commit.
Um and then if you look at it it's just
like
it's just written by AI.
And then you have to wonder like okay
number one is the author using it.
And if the author is not using it or
iterating on a skill
it's kind of becomes more it becomes
increasingly suspect like whether the
skill is good, right?
Um
you know and so
and if they haven't put like you know
what I would want instead is like the
person's prompt.
And like in these those situations
sometimes the skill is just a
decompressed version
of their prompt
and it would be better just to have the
prompt cuz I don't need all the slop of
like this like skill. So that's
something you have to be careful of, I
think. is to like look at the prompt and
look at the skill.
Which is like kind of what I was going
to talk about today.
>> Well, that's a great
great segue to jumping in. So, do you
want to share your screen and tell us
what's up? And to that point as well, I
mean, Randy Olson, who we had in episode
one, in most of these skills at the
bottom, the last step is iterate on this
skill with the user based on what you've
learned together when you
did this workflow.
Um
>> Yeah, absolutely. Let me share my
screen. And my
uh little talk is only like 5 minutes or
less or maybe 10 minutes.
Let's see if Let's see if that's true,
but I think it's true.
Uh
>> I'll set the timer.
>> Let's see. Let's share my screen.
Here we go.
Okay. Can you see my screen?
>> Yep.
>> Okay.
>> I like to be spicy, so
I thought you know, the series was like
show me your skills.
So, internally, I was like, okay, so
internally, I was like, a lot of times
like I don't want to see anyone's
skills.
Like maybe I'll read them,
but
um I don't want I certainly don't want
to use a lot of these skills. And I'll
I'll show I'll I'll tell you why. Um
skills can be useful. Um and and this
includes my skills. I'm going to I'm
going to put myself on blast a little
bit here in a little bit.
But what I want to like say is like be
skeptical of skills.
Like if you go on Twitter and say like,
hey, this skill is amazing. It changed
my life. Blah blah blah. It does all
this stuff. Okay, like approach
everything with a little bit of
skepticism. Take a look. Just read it.
Take some time to read like what is
there and look at it.
Okay? So, okay. Um first let's talk
about myself. So, I have So, okay, as
Hugo mentioned, I teach a class on
Evals.
I've taught over 4,500 people. We have
like thousands of hours of questions and
answers from students, and we have a
book. We have all this stuff, and I
thought, "Okay, wouldn't it be
interesting to create to like distill it
into skills?"
Okay?
Um and so I published these skills. It
was like, "Okay, I have a skill. I have
one skill that doesn't eval on it."
So it it will go through and it'll see
if you're making any of the common
mistakes that students make.
Or like another skill that's like um
you know, trying to help you evaluate
rag. So like, you know, trying to help
you put make sure you have the right
things in place. There's another one for
error analysis. There's another one for
validating that your LM judge is like
calibrated to human.
And so on and so forth. There's like a
couple of There's like a handful of
skills here.
And so it looks good, right? Like it
looks like a good idea. You're like,
"Oh, I want these skills." Maybe the
chat right now is like, "Can I get a
link to these skills?"
And
I would say
I I was like, "Yeah, I thought it was
useful."
But
what happens is like I realized that
I think
publishing these skills
may be leading lots of people in the
wrong direction. So it's like maybe good
on the surface, right? Like
I can, you know, this it looks like it
gives you the illusion that this is
comprehensive, maybe.
And I tried to say like, "Don't just use
these skills. Like customize it for
yourself." But like no one if you
release skills, no one is going to
customize it. No one's going to look at
it. Okay, this is just human nature.
And then people will feel like they're
done. Like you have this eval skill, you
must be doing it right cuz you have
Hamel's eval skill.
That's the way you have to think. Like,
"Okay, how are people using it?"
And yeah, I So I hated
I ended up hating my own skill.
I thought I realized like this is a bad
idea. Okay?
Like
you So, like my you know, like I
mentioned there was like thousands of
hours of like
instruction and like office hours and
Q&A and all kinds of stuff, all kinds of
information.
And
you know, like there's a lot of nuanced
questions people have about Evals.
Like what do you do when it's multimodal
in a certain situation where you can't,
you know, when you have like PII and
whatever like there's all kinds of crazy
questions that people have and we have
answers for all of those. But like it's
not it's unreasonable to just push them
all into a skill.
Um
because the skill is like a compression,
right? And like like I said, people over
rely on the skill.
So, what I end up doing is like, okay,
the skill is still there.
Um but
um you know, I ended up making this like
MCP.
Um
which Okay, so like basically I have
this like chatbot thing
that my students already use and I can
do little bit I can see what they're
doing.
So, like, you know, here's a question.
Okay, I'm trying to create a golden data
set for a system that's in development.
It's a simple query classifier that does
XYZ. The purpose of the classification
is to try to short circuit or route
queries. Okay, fine. I'm just going to
copy and paste this question. I'm just
going to show you So, I have this like I
replaced it with this thing.
Um and this what it does is it just
queries all of the knowledge. Like it
queries this the course.
Um it'll search through all the all the
sources of the course. It'll give you an
answer. But more importantly like
there's an MCP um that you can install.
Um
you know,
there's an MCP that you can install that
will do the same thing. Cuz I'm like,
who who the hell wants to open this web
application, use this chatbot? Nobody. I
mean, it's good to just show you once,
but like, okay, forget it.
Um
And the reason this is I ended up this
is better because now you have more
fidelity for like the kind of
information I'm trying to give people.
I'm like, okay, this is higher fidelity.
Um You can actually get answers to your
nuance question.
And you can go like way further. And
there's no reason for me to compress all
of that knowledge into a skill. Like
that's the wrong idea. Like especially
since I have access to that data. Like
why would I do that? So like
you know,
it was the wrong choice. And I ended up
saying
forget it. Also, if you look at my
skills, like, okay, like I haven't
updated in 2 months. So it's like, am I
using the skill?
No, cuz I'm using this other thing. So
that's already a smell that like, okay,
maybe this skill is a good starting
point. Maybe.
But you should be skeptical. Okay, so
like
um
judging the quality of skills. We
already talked about some of this.
Look at if the skill is being iterated
on.
Look at the commit history, the age of
the skill.
As well like how stale is it?
Um
And then black prompts versus code. So I
feel like
So the purpose of a skill or a big kind
of utility of a skill is like how it how
much it constrains your agent.
And like I guess, you know, that's
basically like the same meaning as a
harness. It's like constrain you in a
useful way.
And so
the more constraints that your skill
imposes, it's a some signal that is
good. If it's just a single prompt in a
single file, um
that seems a little bit less useful,
honestly.
Um
if it's like a bunch of code, tools,
things like that, that's more of a
signal that it's like trying to
constrain your agent more and thus maybe
more useful because someone has found
useful constraints.
Um so that's the kind of way I try to
think about it.
Um, I did some data analysis. I love
looking at data and I, you know, think
it's useful of like even outside evals.
But like okay, there's this a site
called skills.sh. It's like a good repo
or a good like, let's say uh,
like a way to discover skills and like
install skills. It's very useful.
But like okay, I did I took the top 300
skills by amount they're downloaded and
looked at the number of commits.
Okay?
About a third of all those skills only
have one commit.
So,
just think about it. Like,
if you're going to use a skill,
if it's not being iterated on,
is it actually you have to be you have
to like tune up your skepticism a little
bit and say, "Hmm,
uh, maybe this skill is very shallow
and
it may not be, you know, the the ceiling
may not, you know, you know, be it might
be very low in terms of
like what the skill is imparting to you
cuz it's not being it's not being
iterated on.
So, you have to be really careful.
Um, and then yeah, most
skills are just prompts.
They're someone else's prompts.
And I would recommend like if you're
going to just adopt someone else's
prompts wholesale,
um,
okay, you have to think like
you should be reading the prompt and
figuring out like what applies to you
and what doesn't.
And okay, like what are these skills?
So, these are like the top 10
prompt-only skills. I excluded these
like Azure ones because the Azure they
have like
have they have a bunch of skills that
like have flood this this particular
like uh,
um, marketplace. But like okay, like one
of the most popular ones is like this
Anthropic one. Front-end design. Only
one commit, 6 months ago.
Okay, maybe it's okay, but
um, I don't know. Like,
is is this really so
you know
if there's been no iteration on it in 6
months, you have to wonder, hmm, is it
good? And I know a lot of people are
using this. I used to, you know, I was
using this for a long time, too. I just
got tired of my websites looking the
same, so I stopped using it. But this
other one called GitHub Actions, okay?
If you And then if you look at it, it's
three commits, okay?
Um
you know, you have to be careful like
you have to see like what is this,
right? So, if you come to this GitHub
Actions one
it's basically the site map of the
GitHub Actions docs. That's what this
That's all this skill is, okay?
Um, cuz if you come here, look at the
skill.md, it just
basically
you know it's
So, it's not clear to me like
that you need this, honestly. Um
if you use the gh cli, I don't think you
need this skill. I
you know, I battle GitHub Actions all
the time and I don't I don't know about
it. But what I would say is like, you
know, you should look at what it is.
Um
you know, and these are some of the ones
containing code
you know, which is a lot less prob-
problematic. I think some of these are
actually like one the ones with one
commit like this grill me thing is
actually pretty funny.
And like, okay, like comedy-based
skills, great. I mean, sure, you just
need one commit. So, it's like all
contextual. I'm not trying to say like,
oh, okay, you just have one commit,
you're bad, shame on you. No, it's like
based on the context, maybe okay.
So, yeah. That's all I wanted to say
here is like, look
when you see a skill, you should whisper
to yourself
maybe [__] your skills, including my
skills. Don't trust anyone's skills
even if they're my skills
just be careful. That's all I want to
say.
All right, hand it back to you.
>> Um, so much
valuable insight in there,
Hamill. I
The first few things that come to mind
are
you haven't even mentioned the So,
firstly, I totally agree. You haven't
even mentioned the security nightmare of
of skills
where even when you have scripts
embedded in them, like they can go and
pull stuff malicious stuff from the
internet. And if you have, you know, the
lethal trifecta of the ability to Simon
what Simon Wilson has called the lethal
trifecta, the ability to write, the
ability to bring in information and
access to personal data,
skills
are a potential nightmare there.
And that's even just in a in a markdown,
right? Something Matthew Honnold
from Spacy showed last week, all of his
skills
he actually has as dot txts. And one
thing he's really nervous about is
invisible HTML embedded in dot mds.
So, when you preview it, you can't
actually even read everything as as a
human. So, you need to go go to source,
which I find super super interesting. I
do
want to push back on one
So, the utility of skills for me, and
Jeremiah Lowen from Prefect came and
talked his when he was on the show in
the first episode, he was like, "I want
to frame
how I use AI as today's personal
software and just-in-time software and
ephemeral software." And he said, "That
isn't to say that these things won't be
useful for other people, but they'll
need to figure it out as as well."
So, something I love about skills
firstly, I iterate on them, and they
they are quite quite personal to me and
my workflows. But when I share them,
people should be in the loop and adapt
them to to their needs. And I'll I'll
share one that I use all the time, which
is Anthropic Skill Creator skill. So,
I'll do a workflow and then say, "Can
you turn that into" I mentioned it
earlier, right? "Can you turn that into
a skill?" And the way they've done their
skill doesn't quite work for me for a
number of reasons and I want to make
sure
that then I can test the skill in a
variety of ways and so I have my own
version of their skill. So I actually
think most skills we share
if adopted well, they'll they'll become
personal for other people and so it's a
way of
not only steering and constraining an
agent but sharing via some form of
instructional memory our workflows with
each other that then become
personalized. Does that resonate?
>> Yeah, I think the sharing part is
definitely very very good. Yeah. I would
you know and that stuff yeah the the
constraining part is not the only useful
bit of it. I'm just saying like okay
that is one of the dimensions on which
like I try to see like
is this skill going to be valuable for
me personally?
Um but yeah, I mean I I you know
and there's a lot of it's kind of like
how you would judge code. It also is
like does it publish by person that you
trust? So if like
John gave me a skill or Brian gave me a
skill who's in the audience or whoever,
right? It's like okay yeah I'll I'll
trust the skill, you know, cuz they're
giving it to me like and I know them. So
it's like it's it's like kind of like
how you would judge code on GitHub in in
a lot of ways. Um
is like hey I try to see like what are
some signals
you know
that you should take the skill
seriously.
>> Mhm.
And there was also originally um
a study on the cloud and D files
actually can like also be detrimental to
performance. So you might actually
observe the same with skills. I'm
curious if you had done or thought about
doing any evaluation of whether that
skill actually achieves the purpose of
like doing something better or faster or
maybe even actually degrades
performance.
>> So like okay my my setup is very smooth
brained
and maybe not as that flashy. Like I
have a mono repo that has like all these
different directories that like for a
different things I'm trying to do,
whether it's like writing
or
you know, so like something about the
course or something about Yeah, I have
one for like memes, like eval memes. Uh,
you know, and they all you have like the
skills are like contained within those
specific folders and I just like sort of
navigate. Sometimes I sit at the root
and I try to like
I direct the agent. Um, but like yeah,
like that's basically my memory system
as well. Like I just write to markdown
files and I sort of curate the skills
very carefully in a directory structure.
Um
and I try I try really like yeah, that's
how I try to not have it pollute my
context cuz it's like I have found that
like if I just
overdo it, it see it gets really weird.
Like, you know, so um
and I didn't find it that like that much
overhead, honestly, to do that. Like
sometimes I'll use an agent to clean up
my directory as well. Um so yeah, that's
that's what I do.
Yeah, that's that's it. It's just a
giant directory of just stuff that's
organized.
>> It makes me think too
maybe skills is the wrong solution to
the problem. Like
maybe
coding agents should be better at doing
research on the web for how to do
difficult tasks.
Cuz the when I see people write about
skills, it makes me think maybe people
just need to write blog articles
again
and agents could find blog articles. Uh,
it kind of makes me think of that. I
mean, now it's it's extra difficult cuz
we have to
deal with AI slop, but I guess there's
AI slop in skills, too.
But yeah, it just makes me think maybe
the entire workflow of boosting an
agent's ability to deal with a difficult
task or targeted at something tricky is
just we're using the wrong tool for the
job.
>> I really love that. I and um, you know,
like before AI or even now, like okay, I
know everyone on this call has like
written as like writes and blog posts
and stuff.
And like I'm sure all of you have had
the experience of like trying to search
for a problem and you and you like find
your own blog post.
Or your own Stack Overflow thing. You're
like, "Oh, that's really useful." And
that's kind of like why you wrote it in
the first place cuz you like the first
person you want to be useful is
yourself.
And so like absolutely, I think you
should like I often end up pointing my
agent at just my own blog post when I
try to do things. It's super handy. It's
like I already distilled the information
in like the best way I can think of in
this post. So like, yeah.
Uh yeah, I think people should write
more blog posts.
>> You don't point them at your
Obsidian-based LLM wiki? No, I'm just
I'm kidding, man.
Um
I
I do exactly the same. And funnily, I
Google a lot of things and find you
these days, Hamel. You're
It's It's impossible to escape. I do
love um Doug's idea about using like
making sure LLMs that or agents are
better at at searching as well. And you
know, Doug is is eternally in in search
of search. And someone, if you want to
really know about, you know, how to how
to do search, uh Doug and John are both
really interesting people to to follow
there. Um I do also I think using skills
for this type of stuff can be good. Like
you can instruct an an agent how to I
will push back a bit like how to search
a bit better uh in a in a skill and
making sure it has up-to-date
information. Once again, it may be may
be personal. Um and you may say, "I'll
put everything in agents.md." But once
again, a skill uh the nature of the
progressive disclosure does mean that,
you know, I'm managing my context a bit
better in a way that
I don't need to think about as as much.
Um so I think there is some sort of
utility there.
>> I think one of the neat things that one
of the proper applications of skills is
like if you're doing something brand new
and you haven't done it before then I
think it's a great idea to go on the
internet and like you know have your
agent research the best processes for
doing it.
But if you find yourself doing it more
than
three times and it's like your thing
then eventually you want to you do want
to condense that. You do want to take
out all the extra
uh noise uh and compress it to just the
part that you're interested in. So I
think skills is really for me that
that's what I do. Like I'll I'll find a
skill and then I'll be like this sucks
but now I've got the a baseline and I'll
start just rewriting the skill I
downloaded.
>> That's that also sounds to Hamo's point
like very specific to your digestion of
general knowledge that might not be as
applicable to like my how like I'm going
to set up a Kubernetes cluster and the
things that like I see that I have to
remember might be different than what
you care about.
>> There's one thing that
>> We do it in a similar way.
>> I'm sorry.
>> Uh we do it in a similar way for
uh for example IMC, right? So we release
new versions and then you have the agent
try it and actually it does get right
eventually but it'll just like to take a
long time just like do like oh the API
here changed and I didn't know that. And
then the skill is actually also just a
really useful conversation to just like
oh well um here's a cash the cash
version basically of how to do this
thing. So before the three three times
you took a really long time I'm just
going to shortcut that and then uh it's
not that the skill is not anything new
it's just doing it more efficiently. Um
and those skills definitely are useful
for other people as well. So we just
like have it to keep the up-to-date
users of the library faster than what is
usually in the in the pre-trained
>> I was going to say one of my favorite
uses of skills is Okay, this is one
thing that's like super underrated. Is
like websites that don't have APIs or
MCPs that you still have to click around
like a Neanderthal and like like buttons
and all that frustrating stuff. So, like
what I love to do is
you know, use the Chrome extension.
Cloud has one, Codex has one. And I tell
it to do a task, but while it's doing
that task, I tell it to introspect the
internal API of that site.
And like pay attention to what the
routes are.
And how to programmatically like do all
the things.
And so, it struggles the first time cuz
it has to click around and whatever
navigate. And then I have it create a
skill
like for that thing. So, like okay, I
know a lot like Doug, John, Hugo, you
all use Maven. Maven doesn't like you to
to do anything on Maven, you have to
click like thousands of buttons, right?
So,
uh yeah, I have skills that basically
like I have skills I can just fill out a
lightning lesson
or like create a course page
like
pseudo programmatically very quickly
because
you can get this you can the skill
has access to the dev console and can
listen to all the network traffic and
can see like what requests are being
sent, what requests are you know, how to
do like how to hit the internal API
routes.
And then the skill knows like how to
then like use that browser extension the
next time to like get a cookie.
And then like go about its way without
having to click around
everywhere and just do it. So, that's
amazing. Like And this is like a lot of
websites are still pre-AI. Like a lot of
tools.
And so, that's how I get over that
frustration. It's like my It's like my
absolute favorite thing in in world.
>> Amazing. And
>> still I need that skill.
Where do I get that? I'm serious. I want
that now.
>> Oh, so you just like I have a YouTube
video actually that walks through it.
You can just point your agent at the
YouTube video and just say just do what
Hamel did here.
Here, let me get it.
>> And also John, I'll share a skill with
you later which will you'll point it at
this YouTube video and it will do its
best to write a skill based on what
Hamel just said for you and you can
iterate on it with it.
>> So auto play of YouTube. Sorry about
that.
>> I love how everything is like so
incredibly meta right now. I got to
>> Yeah, I need a skill for my skills.
>> Yeah.
>> Um yeah, you can just like
Yeah, you don't need to Yeah, I also
don't know what's going to happen to
YouTube eventually cuz like I don't know
who's it's going to like a lot of videos
maybe people will not won't watch. I
don't know.
Um
>> We need YouTube for agents as well. But
to your point, like the headless
internet is going to become more and
more important. I think they'll be like
some cost-based system where, you know,
government websites, for example,
perhaps
you'll need to click around. Um
IRS, let's say, for for decades to to
come still. Um if you share
the link in the chat, I'll put it in the
Discord as well, Hamel.
>> Okay, thank you. I'll
Okay, I'll do that.
>> I do think this is a wonderful way to
segue to our next guest to
uh Thomas will introduce in a second. Um
but
the ability of skills to encode
instructional memory so we can see how
experts do things and then adapt that to
our workflows, I think is is is really
important. And Chris Fonnesbeck some
time ago wrote a PyMC skill
for statistics, Bayesian modeling, the
these types of things and and inference
that um I've been using PyMC for for
years. Um
but adapting this skill for me helped me
understand how someone like Chris would
use
PMC himself
and allowed me then to adapt it to my
own own workflows, but I needed to do a
a lot of thinking myself how it's
appropriate for me also, which I think
is part of the conversation here. So, I
don't know, Thomas, as you work with
Chris, maybe you you want to introduce
him.
>> Yeah, you want to play the video first?
Sorry.
>> Oh, yeah.
Exactly. As I bring that up, yes, so
we've got a a little video we made for
Chris. Oh, actually, because Hamel
mentioned
trying to build Maven's courses in the
UI, Doug and I had this issue the other
day, right? We're on a call, and this is
we haven't told anyone about this yet
publicly. Um Doug and I
about to announce
building agents course. So, I'll link to
it in
Discord, but the the real reason is Doug
I learned so much from him about about
search, and I do think
search retrieval, Rexster, all of these
things um
are going to become more and more
foundational for any builder in in the
space, and AI has made it, you know,
it's democratized the ability to to
build search as well. So, I do think for
builders learning how to build search
agents is going to be
increasingly important. So, we've
decided to build a course together about
building agents with an emphasis on
search and retrieval and all of that fun
stuff. So, I'll share the link to that
in in Discord, and we can chat about a
bit more about that later, Doug.
So, now I have this video and
So, this is Chris hard at work.
The crowd goes wild.
>> I ran the wrong way around the bases.
>> Uh I think it was in Australia. So,
we're not only upside down, we're
reflected as well and in the future.
>> Yeah, uh
super excited to have uh Chris with us
who has hit home runs uh his entire
career.
Starting with uh PyMC, so
the the the man, the legend that has
created PyMC 1.0, probably like 20 by
now. Um now we just released PyMC
version 6.0.
Um and uh yeah, has been a professor at
Vanderbilt University, then uh worked
for the Yankees and for the Phillies.
And now we're uh super lucky to have him
work with us at PyMC Labs.
Uh yeah, welcome, Chris. Um good to have
you here.
Um
>> be here as always.
>> As always, what um
what do you about working with
>> What do I love the most? Um
well, uh of course it you know,
everybody says it you know, it just
makes your life easier, but uh
more specifically for me uh
you know, it really frees my brain to
focus on creative tasks. Uh you know, it
takes away all of the boilerplate, all
the boring stuff to focus on you know,
the fun stuff. Um but um I guess the
only other
nuance to that I'd add is uh
particularly in the in the context of
you know, data science where you're
building models, iterating on models,
trying to solve a problem as opposed to
trying to build
you know, an application, uh it allows
you to do almost infinite
experimentation. Uh you know, whereas in
the past you'd take shortcuts and uh try
fewer things because of the time that it
would take for you to code it up and
implement it. You know, you can you can
flip of a switch, you can you can do
that and and be a lot more exhaustive
and and use your imagination in ways
that you couldn't before. And cuz
generally I'm lazy and if I don't have a
shortcut like that, I won't you know, I
won't do it.
>> I feel agents are making us all better
data scientists, right? Because now we
actually cancel like the best procedures
and not just like do that one analysis
path that we really think about but do
all of them.
And I guess there's um
uh two things on that note. One is
Decision Lab, which is something we open
sourced, which actually does
actually taking an agent through the
whole forking path of different choices
of
how to pre-process the data. Uh and then
these are also exactly the type of
things that we talk about in the
Mastering Genetic Data Science course
with Hugo and and Luca Fiaschi. That's
going to start uh next week already.
Um
so then what What on the flip side what
do you find most frustrating? What do
you hate about working with agents?
>> Um yeah, I
it's not so much hate uh but the things
that um
are perhaps a downside uh for me is uh
there sometimes they're a little bit too
seductive uh in a way almost like social
media or your or your phone.
Uh Sometimes end up leaning on them a
little bit too heavily and uh you can
kind of paint yourself into a corner
because you haven't you know, you
haven't done the work. Uh you haven't
done the research yourself and and it's
too easy to ask the agent for it. And so
uh so sometimes
uh it can lead you down the wrong path
and and um
uh
you know, while the
people like Wes McKinney can certainly
uh
you know, not look at his code anymore
uh because uh he's kind of optimized his
process such that you know his his
agents are
perhaps doing just as good a job as him
as of reviewing his code. I I can't do
that and
you know I always have there's always a
big learning component for me. So
um
yeah I'm always worried you know not
particularly on these frontier models
that can do so much for you
relying on them a little bit too heavily
particularly in the beginning. So So the
seductiveness I guess of
agents is is not what I hate but what
I'm
fearful of.
>> Yeah
Hamel alone in the first episode said
how he used as a second brain. I was
like I wish it would only be a second
brain for me it's almost my first brain
and I mis- understand things myself.
Uh
but yeah very curious to see what you
got for us in store today and what your
interest skills are.
>> Yeah so you know I actually
agree with a fair bit of what Hamel had
to say in the sense that
you know I too have uh
sort of shied away from downloading it's
kind of like when you first discover MCP
servers
as well as skills you kind of go out and
search for everything that you might use
and load it onto your system and
increasingly that's a bad idea because
you know
uses up context and
and and but again you you you know you
can load it up with kind of uh
information that sometimes is out of
date or relevant
um
but um
like you you know I think there there
are
really useful applications of skills and
and you know the one that
you mentioned that Hugo mentioned before
which is you know the Pine C
modeling scale
um
which uh
is going to be extremely useful for
users because particularly when a new
version is released like PyMC 6 and
these models are obviously trained on
data from the past and sometimes it's
sort of 6 to 12 months out of date
depending on which model that you're
using. And so, you know, the the
internet is full of sort of PyMC 3
uh models and PyMC 3 information, but
there's really nothing yet on PyMC 6 or
more recent um
uh more recent features. And so, if you
want to be if you want to be using those
in your data science workflow, it's
useful to have
you know, skills like that to do it. Um
But um, you know,
the PyMC modeling skill perhaps isn't
the sort of the flashy one to show off
here. So, um
what I'm actually going to talk about a
little bit is um
uh
uh skills having to do with using
a different agent harness, specifically
the the Pie
agent harness, which is what I've been
I've switched to recently.
Um kind of moved away from the Clouds
and the Codexes of the world and
discovered Pie. I think a couple of
people have spoken about it on this uh
on this podcast, but uh
>> Yeah, I have with it's awesome. And I
encourage everyone to check it out.
>> Yeah, and um you know, the nice thing
about you know, I won't kind of
reiterate all of the features of Pie.
You can go to Pie pie.dev and and look
at it yourself, but the you know, the
short uh version of that is that it you
know, it's it's very much stripped down
um analog to Cloud Code or Open Code and
um what which sounds you know, a bit
like a of a drawback in that you're you
know, you're you're to miss out on
a lot of the nice features that a cloud
code will have. Um
but increasingly, you know, I'm
interested in kind of a bespoke um AI
experience that is tailored to the way
that I work. And so, um
so just as Hamel was saying before,
more and more I'm
avoiding skills that other people are
publishing on skills.sh
and essentially just, you know, writing
them myself. And um
one of the nice things about Pi is that
when you run Pi,
you aren't just running a
a compiled
to a binary. You're actually writing
running an environment that um
is linked to its own source code. And
so,
if you want a skill to uh
uh
you know, do something on with GitHub
actions, for example,
you can just ask Pi to do it. And so, Pi
will write a skill that you can
customize to your liking and and and
specify some nuances that perhaps only
you will use and other people
may not. It's really easy to do and
again, you can iterate iterate on it and
and kind of do it yourself. It's really
really easy. Pi can actually fix itself.
So, when something's going wrong, you
can ask it
uh
uh what's going wrong, diagnose it, and
then will actually go in and even alter
the its own source tree when it's
needed. So, it's the sort of self-aware
um to a
a really good auto compaction, things
like that. Um let me actually share my
screen here.
>> And while you're doing that, I'll just
add
um
Sorry for those who have heard of Open
Core as well and you don't know Pi, but
Open Core is built on top of Pi Pi.
Check out the beautiful Pi has a
beautiful short system prompt
as well. I do encourage everyone to
check that out and four tools read,
write, edit, bash and as as Chris
alluded to um
the philosophy of Pi is to get it to
celebrate writing code and building its
own tools and it
it will build tools and hot reload them
so that they can be used immediately and
it's written in TypeScript. I've
actually just linked in Discord to a
workshop I had the
deep pleasure to to conduct with Ivan
Leo who he was at Manas at the time
building agents now is at DeepMind but
we taught a workshop on how to build
something like Pi with some open core
functionality in Python. So definitely
check that out if you don't only want to
use it but kind of see how you can build
something like this.
>> Yeah. Point your agent at the repository
and watch it build it as well.
>> Exactly. Yeah, it's a lot of fun
actually. I have a lot of fun doing it.
It's kind of my procrastination
uh
uh device these days is to try to tweak
my Pi setup uh which can be dangerous.
Um so this you know this repo
um and again as as as Hamel said before
I mean you know
don't don't uh
uh install you can install this yourself
which is great um but you know uh
fork it and um and customize it yourself
or even better uh just ask Pi ask Pi to
create an analog of anything that's in
here uh for yourself but and that's
exactly what I've done right? So um the
first thing that struck me that strikes
you about Pi when you start using it is
you know some of the stuff that is that
is missing out of the box from Cloud
Code. So one of the big things that I
used all the time in Cloud Code is uh
slash simplify
right? So um
I'm not sure how Cloud 4.8 is is going
to work but uh in past versions of Cloud
Code um
particularly when you're doing data
science tasks uh it will uh not
necessarily create the most um
efficient implementation of let's say a
PyMC model that you might like.
And so calling /simplify after you
implement something is a really nice way
to kind of slim it down and make sure
that it's
you know that it's something that you're
proud of and
something that works well. And so
so I created a you know a simple a
simplify /
command in pi as well. I use the the new
shell instead of bash.
So I've got a an extension that will
intercept bash commands and route it
through new shell.
I think Hamel mentioned before the one
of the popular um
skills out there that I highly recommend
is the grill me skill. I think it's Matt
Pocock that published that originally.
I have an implementation of that here
called Socratic Review.
The idea behind that is that
one of the best ways to
get to convince
an agent to implement something well,
implement something that you have in
mind is to actually have a back and
forth with it to clarify uncertainties.
And so the grill me skill essentially
uh induces
Claude most of the time to ask you
questions about what you've requested
that it do and sometimes it'll you know
drill down into sort of 20-25 stages of
questions. This is a similar thing here
Socratic Review. So it'll essentially
ask ask you a series of questions until
it's happy with
what it's about to do kind of at the
planning stage. So that is here as well.
One of the I I one of the things I'll
demo here is um an implementation of uh
plan reviewing and and implementation
reviewing
uh that has actually turned out quite
nicely. So, let me um
let me switch over to that sharing.
Uh
here we go.
Here's my uh So, this is my uh
this is the Z editor um
kind of my weapon of choice for using
agents. Um I actually these days don't
use it as much as a of a text editor
IDE, but um
actually more of a uh AI agent
multiplexer. So, over here on the uh
left-hand side, I've got a series of
agents running uh in different projects
simultaneously,
um and I can just flip back and forth uh
between them as needed. Um
because some of these take a little bit
of time to uh run, I've actually run run
a a few of these um ahead of time. And
um
the um
I'm just in one of my one of the
actually one of the PyMC um
project repositories called
distributions. So, these are uh PyTensor
implementations of the probability
distributions that we currently have in
PyMC, and we've been actually adding
more and more of these over time, and
eventually they'll replace the ones that
we currently have in PyMC. And so, um I
I just went in and looked at one of the
um you know,
say I want to implement a probability
distribution that doesn't yet exist
inside of um
uh
PyMC distributions. And so, um
the half-flat distribution is one that
I'm going to pick here, and a half-flat
distribution is just a uh as the name
implies, it's it's got equal probability
over its entire uh range, a supported
range, and the half flat is from zero to
positive infinity. So, just this
slightly interesting distribution to
implement that isn't already in there.
And of course, you know, you just you
you start by asking
your agent to
to generate a plan
to do that.
And then, um, what I was finding that I
was doing with, um,
uh, with my planning was, you know, as I
think John said before, I was asking the
agent to do the sort of same review
process,
uh, over and over again in the same way.
And so, rather than, you know, saving
myself some typing, created a Py skill
that is is called review plans. And so,
um,
you know, you can,
uh,
you can, um,
oops, just type in review plans here,
and then, uh, you point it at the set of
plans that I that was created,
um, and, uh, this was saved to, you
know, plan  half flat
implementation.
And so, uh, you just point it at the,
uh,
plans
half flat implementation, and it will,
uh, it will run it and, uh, present, uh,
its findings to you,
um, and write those findings to a, um,
uh, to a local markdown file. And what
it will do is it will find, you know,
red flags,
uh, yellow flags if they exist. This one
was pretty clear. Half flat distribution
isn't isn't very, um,
difficult to implement, so it was pretty
clean out of the gate. So, perhaps this
wasn't the best example to do, but, um,
and then, you know, based on, you know,
you can you can, uh, write that review
to a a local markdown file, and then
ask,
uh, the, uh,
uh, the original agent to to implement
it. And I like to go back and forth
between uh you know, different um
instances and sometimes even uh
different models. So, you can you know,
in in Pi you can
uh cycle through uh different models.
So, for example, I might use uh you
know, DeepSeek for Pro to do my
reviewing
uh and then give it back to something
like Quen uh to do the implementation.
Um and then you know, after uh the
implementation is uh done, there's an
additional skill called review uh
implementation that will do something
similar.
And so, uh at the review stage, I you
know, go back and forth uh using these
Pi skills to uh uh
iterate over the plan until there are no
more red or yellow flags, run the
implementation, and then do exactly the
same thing with uh review
implementation. Um
uh so, you know, again, these are just
uh skills that I've come up with uh
myself simply by asking Pi to do it, and
then I've saved it to QDPi uh so that I
can you know, make
uh
keep it current, uh update it, and have
it constantly available as a repository
to uh to share with others.
>> Really cool. And uh you mentioned you
had different types of agents that uh
for example, doing the reviewing and
then the
uh and that you're using Quen, is that
also part of the uh of Pi and the skill
is which model to use for which context?
>> Um I you I usually make that on the fly
depending on what I'm doing. Um I I've
really I've I've kind of switched away
uh a little bit from Frontier models for
this and I I I typically use some
combination of uh
uh the newer Quinn models uh the Deep
Seek the the latest Deep Seek Max uh R4
model is really good and then uh Kimmy
uh K2.6 and different ones have
different strengths. Uh Kimmy is a
really good coding agent. Um
uh Deep Seek uh a little bit better at
uh data science tasks and so and then
there's just something that you learn
over time. So I I typically will uh pick
it myself but you know you know you
could uh you know you could have add an
auto selection uh feature to the skill
as well if you needed to.
>> Cool.
>> Yeah.
>> I am interested. Um
I haven't used Zed a lot and uh
I mean a lot of people coming on on on
the show Zed and and Pi are two things
that and I use Pi a lot but um
what what drew you to Zed and what's
kept you there?
>> Um it So I'm I'm before uh using Zed um
uh I was you know a heavy VS code user
and that was primarily tied to the fact
that uh
uh I was
building a lot of Jupyter notebooks and
VS code has and and cursor um have
really good well they're really the only
ones that support um
uh the rendering of Jupyter notebooks uh
for Python models. Uh but recently uh
you know I know you had uh
uh Vincent Warmerdam on the show
recently. Uh
I have switched most of my work over to
using Marimo notebooks which um you know
no longer require sort of the big JSON
that uh Jupyter uh spits out at you. And
so you're you know, you're working with
uh Python files uh instead. And so, you
know, Zed doesn't currently support
Jupiter. And so, uh it was I was looking
to sort of transition away from kind of
the heavy IDE that VS Code is
uh into something that's a little bit uh
a little bit faster. Um and
on top of that, you know, traditionally
I'm a a VI uh or Neovim user.
Uh and uh Zed has a a really really nice
uh Vim mode, native Vim mode.
Um
uh and um
uh and so, you know, kind of supports my
sort of uh instinctual coding habits. Uh
and it's written in Rust, so it's very
fast.
>> Yeah, and Marius who's
Sorry, I was just going to say uh
Marius who's in the chat and congrats on
on Ken, uh Marius. Um so excited to see
what you and and Wes and Philip Cloud
get up to.
There. He's written, "Zed is nice, but
not needing to pay the electron tax
helps." Which
>> [laughter]
>> I think we can all
feel. Uh I'm glad you mentioned Marimo
as well. And when thinking like through
the provocative like
[__] skills take, I I do think I I agree
with everything Ham Hamel says. I said
there, not everything Hamel says. Um
once again,
but when people share skills and I can
personalize them can be eminently
useful. And the Marimo pair skill is is
one that I I I find that deeply deeply
with.
Um
I also if people want to see that in
action, check out the episode from last
week with Vincent or the episode the
week before with Eric Mar, who he takes
us through how he uses Marimo pair to do
exploratory data analysis. And it felt
like watching
I'm slightly being slightly hyperbolic,
but it felt like watching Mozart or
something. Like watching Eric in sync
with Marimo pair explore
um um
you know, genetic data visualize all
these different
molecular
molecular data sets and that type of
stuff was really powerful stuff.
>> Yeah, I I I basically live inside of uh
Marimo pair these days uh
and so this is a really nice way of
doing it. I I often have multiple
sessions open at once. So that again
this multiplexer is uh is really really
handy. Um you know, kind of I used to
have multiple
uh
ghost uh ghosty terminals open
simultaneously and having to flip
between them was a little bit awkward.
Um and you know, Zed
pops up a nice little notification when
something's finished so you can switch
over to it uh and you don't forget you
know, you
get in that situation where you're stuck
uh where Claude is stuck uh waiting for
uh permission to do something and uh
well, you thought it was chugging away
and so uh getting an an alert uh from
Zed is really helpful. So so it's it's a
nice integration of kind of lightweight
editing because again we're we're not
using the editor quite as much anymore.
Um
uh
really good integration with
um
with the various models. Like you can
you know, you can spin up a uh you know,
a terminal thread which is typically how
I work here because if you want to use
let's say Claude code um
via the subscription uh which is what I
have the Claude Max subscription um
you're not actually allowed to use that
inside of things like open code anymore.
And so this is a way of using it that's
well integrated with uh Zed. Uh
when your discs come up, they will open
up inside of the editor. Uh but then you
can also open a you know, it's got an
ACP implementation as well that's a
little bit more integrated with uh with
Zed and uses its kind of custom
interface. Um
but I find the ACP is little bit slower.
So, I typically just use terminal
sessions.
>> Awesome. How extensible is Zed? Um I've
been looking for like a new place to
host my like kind of dock my agents. Can
you build whatever you want in it?
>> Yeah, yeah, I mean it's got published
extensions. Um
you know, a lot of them are are just MCP
servers or language servers. Um so, it's
extensible, uh you know, in that sense.
Um
if you've got a local extension, you can
install it, you know, from a a
repository as well. Um
I don't I don't customize things too
much other than
you know, this is my I back on VS code I
used the West Boss's Cobalt 2 theme and
there wasn't one for Zed. So, uh
you know,
wrote a
Cobalt 2 theme and published that as an
extension. So, it's it's pretty easy.
>> And we're already seeing
base PyMC code on your screen. You're
also teaching a workshop in London soon,
right? What are students going to learn
there?
>> Well, they're going to learn all of the
new PyMC 6 stuff, of course. Um you
know, back in the uh
the uh
uh
pre-COVID times, uh I used to do a lot
of
live uh
PyMC course teaching or in general base
course teaching. Um which I really,
really like, you know, uh uh Zoom
courses are great and uh I get a lot out
of them and I think our our students do
as well, but man, it doesn't beat it
can't beat the interactivity of being in
a room with uh some experts and bouncing
ideas off of one another and uh that
that sort of level of engagement is is
really second to none. And so, um
you know, I
I was trying to get uh more of these
live courses going. And so, um we
thought, you know, right on the heels of
PyData London
uh, next weekend, uh, just you know,
let's let's let's do a PyMC course. And
so it's a 2 and 1/2 day long
uh, live course uh, in downtown London
uh, in East London actually
um, where you know, we'll sit around and
2 and 1/2 days is a really good sweet
spot. You know, I think what once you
get to the end of like 3 days,
everybody's ready to lose their mind but
uh, 2 and 1/2 days is a nice chunk of
time to really, you know, dig into some
useful topics like the new time series
stuff, uh, state space models in PyMC,
uh, you know, Gaussian processes, um,
BART models, things like that. So, uh,
so I'm really looking forward to it.
It's going to be a lot of fun. It's
going to be me, uh, Nial Alton and uh,
Rob Zinkov. Um, both of whom should be
on this show sometime because they
have a ton of skills.
>> Yeah, we'll have to bring them on.
Uh, well, thanks so much. That was
really uh, interesting, excited. Um,
Hugo, shall we
>> Yeah. And so we've also uh, linked to
uh, Chris's workshop and course in in
London in Discord for anyone interested.
And um, Doug has commented in Discord
what problems can you can you fix a a
PyMC hammer? This is This is absolutely
wonderful. We're going to need to riff
on this a bit more. Um, before
introducing Doug, I do want to say I
want to clarify perhaps a slight
misconception um,
that this show is about agent skills and
it's my fault for calling it show us
your in brackets agent skills but it was
a joke um, and it's really about how to
work with agents. So, we might have to
think about slightly rebranding at some
point but it really is about you know,
showing workflows and some of those are
skills um,
some are not which I think
[clears throat]
brings us maybe to some of the stuff
Doug will show today um, that he's doing
with uh, Auto Research, which is another
really interesting vector for what we're
seeing at the moment. Um and I will
introduce Doug first via video. Um and
Chris, for some reason I can't stop you
sharing your screen.
>> Oh, sorry.
>> if you wouldn't mind No, that's I mean,
it looked beautiful. But
this is equally beautiful to intro Doug.
So,
>> I love it.
>> That is Doug in search of searching. I
couldn't keep you 8-bit man. Like I put
in the the start, the middle, and the
end of the prompt make sure Doug stays
8-bit the entire time, but in search of
search clearly meant you needed to break
forth into multi-dimensional
space, what we what we occasionally call
refer to as misguidedly refer to as
reality. Doug led teams search teams at
Shopify, Reddit, Wikipedia.
Um in 2012, Doug got bit by the search
bug, and he's still trying to keep up.
From full-text search to learning to
rank models to search agents that
generate their own code, Doug navigates
and knows the endless maze and and
landscape first hand. Um
I mentioned he led teams at Reddit,
Shopify, and Wikipedia. He's also author
of two wonderful books you can see one
in the background behind John, not
behind Doug. Um John's one of the best
Doug hype guys.
>> They're behind me, actually. You just
can't It's might be hard to see.
>> Man, always playing hard to get. Um
and he's also authored
authored, what a verb. Uh AI-powered
search, advised over 100 organizations
over the years, all in pursuit of the
same question. How does search actually
work? Um teaches several great Maven
courses and we've just added one to the
roster. So, Doug and I will be teaching
building
AI agents for the enterprise
incorporating a lot of search stuff and
as I said before, I just want to make
clear that search has always been
incredibly important in data science,
machine learning, product, um
but
as part of this kind of AI generative AI
revolution,
I think
the ability to deliver value to
organizations by building products that
robustly incorporate search
just has opened up so much. Um and I
think the amount we're already seeing
the amount of jobs for builders who work
in search going up and up and up. So, in
if you're going to add anything to your
toolkit,
um
that you don't have yet, like getting
better at search, I I think is is
something which will I mean, I'm doing
it in order to future-proof myself as
well. So, I do highly encourage everyone
to get be in search of search and
follow Doug to do so.
>> Yeah, and I'm still I'm still I've been
I was bit like you said, I was bit by
the bug in 2012. I'm still in that
labyrinth trying to find my way out.
Somewhere out there someone's I'm
pulling that What are What is that?
You're pulling the string or whatever
that the
to escape the minotaur.
Escape the minotaur. Exactly.
Exactly.
So, yeah, thanks for having me.
>> You know I'm going to build like an
8-bit video game of you escaping the
minotaur from the search maze.
>> Oh, yeah, totally. That would be great.
It goes with the turnbull somehow, too.
>> Absolutely.
>> [laughter]
>> All right, let's jump in.
>> Yeah, let's go.
>> Yeah.
Uh let me share my screen.
Do do do.
>> Oh, yeah, sorry. First two questions. Um
what do you love most about working with
agents?
>> Uh, I mean, I love the fact that they
mostly do what I tell them to do. They
get a lot of work done and they come
with an encyclo- They basically
come with a pre-built encyclopedia of
the entire of a compressed version of
the entire
entire human knowledge.
And I can just point that at a problem
and it
generally does the solves the problem.
Um,
what I don't like what I like least or
what I find most frustrating working
with agents is the inconsistency. So, I
tweeted this before I actually tweeted
this earlier. It's like there are some
days where it's like that agent wants to
beg permission to do any minor thing.
Um, oh, you oh, you wanted me to do that
thing that we were talking about? Um,
and then there are other days where it's
just like completely overconfident and
thinks the human is stupid and is just
going to like delete all all of my code
and go crazy. So, there's like this
weird level of inconsistency where it
can't decide if it's
uh, it's very timid. It needs to sort of
walk on eggshells around me or if it
needs to like go crazy and just remove
and go hog wild in my code base.
That's probably the number one thing I
just deal with day-to-day.
Trying to like get it in a good state
with like, okay, yes, you can do that.
You're okay, but don't go farther than
this line.
>> Totally relatable. So,
what are you going to show us today?
>> Yeah, so today So, I'm going to talk
about auto research and some of the fun
stuff I do.
Uh, let's see.
I'm going to share my screen.
Uh, everyone see my screen?
Does everyone see my screen?
>> can. Sorry, I'd muted myself.
>> Okay.
>> Um, if you could zoom in a bit, that
could be could be useful.
>> So,
a lot of stuff going on here. It's not
like super important. I just like to
show
This is what we're going to talk about
today. This like matrix concoction I
have going on here with like something
happening in the upper left which I'll
talk about in a minute. Man, it's sort
of a task that's described by this thing
on the right.
I
just to show off my setup. I use open
code a lot.
And I just I don't know what happened
that this shot up to $55 um
today, but yeah, I use open code a lot.
So, open code is a coding agent. I just
kind of got into it. I don't know
exactly why or how I got into it
other than I just like the fact sort of
maybe similar to other people. I just
like being able to switch between
different kinds of models and play
around with
some of the open models and that kind of
thing.
And I'm going to show off what exactly
this crazy concoction is doing.
So, I work in search.
And
search has
In search, we have these sort of like
basic algorithms that are well-known
algorithms for doing search.
And for those who don't know and know
about search, there's a couple of
families I would say of retrieval
systems. And when I say retrieval
systems, if you don't work in search,
you could just replace that with
database. You and it's somewhat
analogous if you've come up through the
no sequel world of like there's this
There's a data There's a database like
Redis and it's really good at key value
storage. And there is a database like a
relational database like Postgres and
it's good at at joining
sort of these like join operations of
bringing together and
information from different tables.
And we sort of have a similar thing in
search where we have the quote-unquote
databases or sometimes people say search
engines, things like Elastic Search that
have of course been around for a while.
And we have things like vector databases
which people may know which is another
kind of retrieval system.
But we have these these different
backends, these different ways of
retrieving information from
potentially petabytes of information out
there.
And there's a couple of families of
those and they're all none of them are
obsolete, they're all really important.
And probably
if you're you know on this podcast you
may know of course about embeddings and
vector search that came up especially
after ChatGPT came out when everyone was
building rag.
And that's of course very important.
You've got great solutions out there and
like Turbo Puffer, Pinecone,
Weaviate, uh you know, Q-Quadrant, like
I'm going to forget some
and but there are dozens of them out
there and they're all great.
But we also still have this way of doing
search that's keyword-based.
That is literally like I take a query
like red shoes
and I need to find the item in this
corpus that has
the most occurrence of red, the most
occurrence of shoes weighed by what's
most important
which of those terms is most important.
And that's called BM25.
And BM25 is a way of
it's just basically a way it's basically
the optimal way that people figured out
decades ago for doing keyword matching.
And still very powerful and it just
still a very compelling baseline.
And it's tends to be to this day
performed extremely well. It's very
fast. Like you can spin up a lexical
index and get BM25 search working really
fast.
>> Can I just add that Doug? Something I've
learned from you and from other people.
My One way to For those who haven't
heard of BM25 is to think about it
For those who've done machine learning,
you know, on binary classification
first baseline majority class
classifier, right?
Not always great, but if you're not
beating that, whatever. Um BM25
should be that first baseline, but it's
actually way more performant than a
majority class classifier on average
ever will be. So, it's a great baseline.
In the end, you'll probably want some
form of hybrid hybrid search, but when
people I think because we are obsessed
as a culture with vector embeddings and
semantic search and that type of stuff,
stuff like this is These are like $100
bills left on the floor.
>> Absolutely. And the thing about any
embedding Any embedding model is a is a
trained artifact, and you're probably
pulling
I mean, most people are probably pulling
like OpenAI's like embedding model.
Or you're probably going to Hugging Face
or something and getting an embedding
model. Those are always trained. You
have to know what data what they're
trained on. You have to understand that
they're optimized for a specific task.
BM25, you don't have to assume that at
all. It just kind of works. Like you
don't have to do anything.
Um
It's basically a version of TF-IDF uh
for if you know what that is, which is
really just a way of saying I'm going to
score the matches by how often they
occur.
And the uh
and that's of course if shoe occurs 100
times or
or a lot of times in this document, it
means it's more relevant than if it
occurred like two times. And then
there's this other important factor
document frequency which just says that
if you search for Luke Skywalker in a
movie corpus Skywalker is going to
basically only occur in Star Wars
information or Star Wars movies.
Luke is going to occur all over the
place in many contexts. So Skywalker is
way more specific to the users intent
and you can see that just by seeing that
it incurs in fewer documents.
So that inverse document frequency is
that like notion of weighing Skywalker
to be more important than Luke.
Um
and
all to say that if you go and look up
the BM25 math which you can do in like
this BM25 or this Wikipedia article
you can see here and uh
there is let me actually get Desmos.
We got that. There's all these ways that
people have figured out that the
uh term frequency
This is like my most visited. Yeah, you
you've there's all the I probably made
this 10 years ago myself trying to
figure this out. Uh there are all of
these this blue line here
is sort of how like normally if we were
just to do raw TF-IDF
the x-axis here is the term frequency is
the actual term frequency.
But what people have figured out
so for the longest time people would
just say I'm going to multi I'm going to
figure out a TF-IDF score by taking x
and somehow dividing it by the document
frequency.
That's what raw TF-IDF is.
What BM25 basically figured out was like
that the importance like having more
matches occur in in
saturates.
So, it's not suddenly more relevant if
you get uh
five matches of Skywalker versus four.
That zero to one step change is actually
what's really important.
Um
so, there are insights like this that
have come out through honestly people
dorking around with heuristics against
open data sets.
Um
the data sets we had decades ago for
search.
Um
so, why this is interesting to me and
where this gets agent-y
is I started to play around with doing
um
taking BM25.
I have some code
that looks basically like this. This is
from a blog article of mine.
It's not from reddit.com, which I don't
know why that says that.
There it goes.
Um
I have taken
a there's like very popular question
answering data set
called MS Marco.
Uh I think it stands for Microsoft and I
don't know what Marco stands for. I
think it stands for something.
And all MS Marco is is a set of
questions in a corpus of like I think
it's like 10 million passages.
Uh it's the original chunked data set
when we talk about rag and chunking
where we take our corpus and we chunk it
into
little sec- little paragraphs basically.
And in that data set, we have a question
and the identifier of a document that is
the answer.
Um so, the question might be like where
What is the capital of Paris, France?
And the answer might be like uh this
snip- this the identifier of this like
paragraph snippet describing Paris.
Um
and that's the answer to what's the
capital of France. And so, um
this
test set exists, which is great. It's an
amazing corpus
that helps us evaluate question
answering systems.
Um and people will go and they'll say,
"Well, let me try my algorithm." Or I'll
train on MS Marco. That's the other
thing, it's a training set. Let me try
out my algorithm to see how good it is
at surfacing like the right answer to
the question.
Um
So far, so good. I'll stop there just to
make sure
the trainer in me wants to make sure I'm
all good.
>> Yeah, great. I'm wondering if Thomas or
John, any questions?
>> I think we just built the test bed for
the agent you're about to introduce.
>> Exactly. Yes. So,
what I If you take BM25,
uh if you
write the code for BM25,
which is this basically this
uh this little snippet.
This is Python code.
Uh you tokenize the query up into a set
of search terms.
You don't have to know too much about
this, but you can think about this as a
white space split and there's some
stemming and things going on. Like
taking words down to the root form.
This uh corpus description snowball
array. This is all part of like a
lexical search Pandas extension that I
use called search array. But all this is
doing is this is This is the passage I
was just describing, like that little
paragraph on what is Paris or what is
the capital of France.
And then this four term in terms is just
iterating the query terms.
Um and it does some very naive things
using numpy arrays.
But what it does is it gets the term
frequency of of this term. So, this term
might start out as like
"What in What is the capital of Paris,
France?"
Uh the term frequency might, you know,
get the term frequency of every
uh of what in every document in this
corpus. So, this is going to be like an
array of a million items.
Um the doc frequency here is just a
single floating-point number cuz it's
the
uh doc frequency of the
uh of what, which is going to be very
high. So, it's a very com- a very common
term.
And then down here, all we're doing is
this TF * 1 K All this is doing is BM25.
So, BM25, perfectly good.
So, what I started to play with was
could I I was Honestly, I did this I was
doing this back in October.
Could I take Could I ask an agent to
propose patches to this code?
And given I have an eval set, can I then
evaluate how um
whether or not that change produces rel-
more
a higher eval score on this MS Marco
dataset.
So, could I find basically a better
BM25?
And I don't want to claim I'm going to
find a better BM25 that's going to work
on every dataset. That would be involve
a lot more work
because BM25 is one of those things
people frequently say they find a better
thing of and they often fail.
Um
but in the for this dataset, which
almost every search team just cares
about their dataset that they work with
at their job,
could I find a basically a better
retrieval function?
A slightly better way of
doing the keyword matching.
Um
and [clears throat]
that's what I have here. So, I have a
whole auto research setup.
Um I give my the two main tools. So, I I
I do this myself actually. Uh I probably
I would love to understand more about
pie cuz I think it might be able to do
this for me.
But I basically built my own code
editing uh workflow.
And a code editing like
how you actually go through and build a
code coding agent is actually the the
coding part is actually not that hard.
You're basically designing a tool called
that does a search and replace that says
like
find this snippet of code, go to find
the another end of the code,
and delete all that and replace it with
this new text I gave you. Like
it's it's actually not that hard if
you've played around with agents and you
feel comfortable
uh building an MCP or your own tools,
like that part of it's actually not that
hard.
>> And you also actually I it's good to
have one but you don't even need a
system prompt. Um with good with
stronger models these days if you have
you know your your tool definitions, you
know, looking looking all right.
Um
>> Yeah, and I I just want to talk through
I'll talk through quickly
the
just really quickly the rough workflow
that seems to have worked. I've actually
have another iteration on this but
that'll have to I'll probably talk about
that at some future date maybe in a blog
article.
But the workflow like I basically
arrived at there's a couple of core
tools that I give the um agent.
Um
I let the agent So, just there there's
some obvious things. Like I let the
agent run
rerank. I let the agent run this
directly on a single query.
And if that query it has evals, I will
return the top results labeled.
Uh that's not in this blog article, but
and there are other things like uh I let
it revert changes and uh that sort of
thing.
>> [clears throat]
>> But it becomes a code editing,
what I've really found is really
important with the stuff because in
almost every time I teach my agentic
search course, cheat at search with
agents,
someone will see something I'm doing and
say, "Let me just go to Claude code and
tell it to make search better."
What almost always happens with that
is you get this like overfit if it's
this query return this basically the set
of results.
Um it's a very It's massively overfit.
So, um
if you just tell Claude code to make
search better, here are some evals.
That's that's what's going to happen.
So, you need to actually
think really carefully about the the the
optimization flow.
And it's a bit of progressive disclosure
actually.
And you can think about it as I'm going
to have some training data.
And I want the agent to be able to see
within there's a in the same any It's
honestly any ML problem. I've got
training data and I've got uh validation
data. I might have some other holdout
validation for
for entirely.
And their training data exists to let
the agent really really introspect on
the behavior of like those specific
queries.
So, if it
what happens is the agent calls this
tool try out patch.
That's its like little sandbox way of
evaluating things.
I'll make a little edit
uh and make a new reranker function.
And then on those like, let's say out of
a thousand queries, uh
I don't know, several hundred, 200, 800,
300, I don't know, whatever I pick.
Training data is our training um queries
change.
Uh I will eval
on those training queries
that I've set aside to let the agent
really dig into. And I will give like
really detailed information of what
happened to these training queries.
So, the agent will be in this flow for a
while of just trying out patches.
And eventually it'll write something it
likes that it wants to basically apply.
Or now I use the word commit. Like one
tip I got was like tool naming is
actually really important to how agents
use this stuff. I found commit is
actually even more powerful.
Um
but
if the agent sees a change it wants to
make,
I then it takes it calls this apply
patch tool. So, it's docked around in
this training set that it knows about.
There is some holdout data that it
doesn't know about.
And it will try to apply the apply the
patch, and I will run that on a
validation data set, and I will either
accept it or reject it based on
whether this change improved the hold
the holdout validation or didn't improve
the holdout validation.
Um and that helps to prevent most of the
stupid overfitting that agents tend to
do to ranking code.
Um
and
when to when I did all of this stuff and
I was working with this uh data set,
there's a lot of other details in here.
Uh but I want to jump down to
what
the code is kind of a nightmare.
But what it actually did that was kind
of interesting.
Uh and I think there's more work to be
done here.
Uh it came up with the idea of removing
stop words. I mean,
and it added a small
basically five-gram boost. So, uh like
two-word phrases. So, the what uh
what is and what is capital France.
Uh it turned out that there were some
multiplier times like just counting how
many times that bigram occurred in the
document was important.
And then removing stop words from the
actual query. So, stop words are things
like the, a, like just words that occur
in every document.
And I think just to finish this,
>> [snorts]
>> I I've learned a lot about building
agentic workflows through this and I
such a I find auto research such a
amazing place to learn about this stuff.
Uh
with the other thing about auto
research,
it This gets back to the things I really
like about agents.
It's
Yes, there are like examples of agents
solving Erdős problems and things like
this.
But I would say for 99.9999999%
of the work that we're doing, what it's
really doing is it's These are like
somewhat obvious things that it that
probably are in its training data.
Like removing stop words from question
answering is a very common thing to do
in lexical search
and probably also doing like little
phrase or bigram boosts and that kind of
thing.
So, it's really interesting just to see
like could I set up an optimization
process that is more or less like
trying ideas that are in some ways like
existing more interesting to just try
lots of ideas that are existing
human corpus of ideas to try on these
problems than necessarily like
looking for a Fields Medal winning
solution to search or something like
that.
Yeah, so that's basically it.
>> Super cool. Thanks, Doug. And I've
linked to um your post and the notebook
in Discord as well. I am interested how
you
because one kind of foundational
philosophy of
o- open res- uh sorry sorry auto
research is giving agents more and more
freedom to do their thing and you know,
something we've seen a lot in this this
area is verification is incredibly
important and particularly when starting
out, right? Working on something. So, I
wondered
you know,
in in this case in particular but more
generally how you think about building
trust with the agent to then give it
more and more scope and more and more
time or space to do things and bring you
back results.
>> Yeah, absolutely. I mean, it's it's it's
very sim- what auto research has told me
taught me is that
auto research is like an extreme example
of giving trusting agents to go nuts and
just work on a problem until
some metric increases.
But like any for those uh it's kind of
full circle back to lessons of doing any
machine learning
is you you
you really need guardrails. You really
need to have good
um
think about the evaluation evals and
training that you're giving the auto
research to reason about.
Um and there are all the gotchas are
really about process. They're not
necessarily about
uh they're not necessarily about like
some the idea that the agent had. Like
it's really it's really it you really
forces you to think about the full
process.
>> I I got some questions about the the
what the agent was was seeing along the
way. Like um
is is auto research effectively the same
thing as Ralph or it's like here is
success just just keep doing it or are
you like
uh and that would work. That's one end
of the spectrum. The other end of the
spectrum like my while you're talking my
mind was uh going to the research that
Google did and I forget quite which
field it was but
>> the rank evolve or
>> Yeah, they were evolving. It's like
here's 20 solutions. We'll try them
and then present you with all the you
know how they did and
and break it down to like how they did
in certain domains even and then let the
agent have enough
uh autonomy to say okay, I want this
part of the strategy and I want that
part of that strategy.
>> Mhm. Mhm.
>> So like could you save the outputs
Um let's see what would you do? Could
you could you save like the script
itself where this is the the the
relevance algorithm but also save like
the metadata of like when when I ran
this it was really good on high TF
fields and
>> Yeah, you you totally can do that.
One thing I didn't show so I I didn't
show
the full
2-hour long version of this, but one
thing about this is the
Uh I actually every time
So the agent runs,
it knows the code, it knows its tools,
and it can change the code and measure
its changes,
and try to save code changes.
But it does one round of that. So it
goes it I don't expect the agent to go
and do everything in one pass.
So the agent will run,
and it will give me a message
summarizing what changed, and then
there will be a new rerank. I call it
reranker cuz it's taking it There's a
new ranker new ranker code.
Um
but I take the output of that round and
then then I start a new round.
So I
I I've been just serializing these
rounds.
It'd be really There's a lot of other
potential workflows for this. Like could
you fork them somehow? Could you go in
different directions?
It's a very genetic
aspect to it, too, of
could you get the ideas like the best
part of different ideas to combine?
Yeah, there's a lot that I think is like
>> I've been trying to hack with you and
stuff. One thing that that I that kind
of intersects with some of my interest
here is uh could you give it a knowledge
base?
And by knowledge base I basically mean
an Obsidian vault. It's own wiki wiki.
But basically whenever it starts doing
an analysis, it just keeps its own like
the the lab journal. It says, "Well,
here's here's what this did, and here's
I think this is important to measure."
You'd obviously have to seed it
correctly, otherwise it's going to start
doing boring stuff. Like it'll just do
the it won't use it correctly. I've I've
had that bad experience
>> before.
>> Yeah.
>> But that might be interesting to see how
it's learning what it needs to pay
attention to, and then hopefully using
that and coming to solutions that are
more holistic like grabbing the pieces
and parts from
everything it's learned.
>> Yeah, that's interesting and I I did
experiment. I haven't seen it like have
a dramatic impact yet.
But I did experiment with like
uh giving it a search tool over the logs
and traces of the past agentic runs.
Um
but I haven't I I I think this gets to
why
m- agentic memory is like why grep
probably isn't great agentic memory
finder
and why people are building actual
agentic memory architectures.
But I I've tried that. I haven't seen
too much amazing outcomes yet, but it
could just be the structure of that
across agents like how agentic memory is
organized is not
I haven't figured cracked that nut yet.
So maybe maybe you'll convince me to
hack on that with you at some point.
>> I mean we we should all hack on memory.
Memory is and this has been a through
line through the series as as well.
Um
deeply challenging for everyone.
>> Yeah, totally.
It's yet another search problem.
>> Right.
Yeah, like I've got so many beefs with
the way I think memory works.
But I'm sure there's one of your
episodes I have to watch and that'll
like fill in all the blanks.
>> What are your questions?
>> Um
>> What's your beef?
>> So the way that humans remember things
works out just spectacularly well and is
so absent
>> Does it though?
>> Oh, yeah. Uh well, okay. Like once I
clarify my point, you'll be like,
"Okay."
>> I mean I can remember the quadrate I can
remember stuff I learned at elementary
primary school and can't remember
important stuff that happened last week.
Like I don't get me wrong actually.
Sorry. I mean clearly human memory is an
incredible thing.
>> I remember the name of every dog I meet,
but never their owners.
>> Okay, yeah.
My point is that I actually think we can
do better with agent memory in the end
than human human memory. And we that
shouldn't be what we're shooting for.
>> Mhm.
Well, I would love to get philosophical.
I don't know if we have time for that
right now.
>> I'm being eminently practical practical.
Like I literally remember things from
when I was 10 that aren't important and
can't There are certain things that
happened last week that I need to write
down that are important. And I write
them down because my memory doesn't
function properly there.
>> But there's there's something that I
want the agents to do and they just
there's nothing there where they could
do it. Uh if you have an your AI intern
that shows up to work, then they get
their like onboarding document. Like
here's how here's how you should perform
your job.
And a normal intern human would be like
whenever they screw up on something, you
know, build this project and you just
use the wrong like architecture.
Uh the next day when when the boss is
like, "Hey, let's let's build a thing."
Uh then you have this visceral pain.
It's like, "Uh
I am reminded of an episode episodic
memory. And then I can replay that stuff
and you know, turn it into semantic and
procedural memories that like you know,
what should be applied here?
But
we automatically feel the pain and the
desire to remember.
Uh which I don't see an easy way for
machines to do that during a long
conversation. Maybe you're right at the
beginning you got a shot.
Um but the the next thing is like what
do you search for?
We if if you're talking about like um
you're the boss and you're talking about
like here's how
uh here's a product we make today. And
it's a completely different product than
I made yesterday that kind of screwed
everything up on. Then I can't take the
search terms the like actual
words you're using right now and use
that for a search. I have to take
some sort of situation from this. Like
there's a different
aspect that is really the key into the
index. And humans index that perfectly
well. It's like, I'm reminded of the
pain and it just draws me back to that
and offers it that memory up as like,
should you pay attention to this? And we
do that subconsciously.
So, how do you do that with memory?
Are the memory systems like even
touching that?
>> Not to my knowledge. I I'd be interested
if anyone in the chat or anyone watching
afterwards does. And I I think to your
point, I think those are examples of
human memory systems which it would be
great to have in have in agents. But I
do think there are lots of things that
that we can do far better with agents
than um
and human
>> Before we
Yeah, one thing I want to mention
in some ways of closing the auto
research angle, I do want to mention
that
all of the stuff in the blog article I
did on
making a better BM25 for MS Marco,
I do want to plug. And it's too bad they
haven't they didn't hit the publish
button on this today, but uh
Vespa, the Vespa is a well-known search
engine company, Vespa.ai. Like, Vespa,
like the same as the little tiny
motorcycles.
Um they have a blog article coming out
that improves further on what I did
using some of their own features and
auto researching some of the cool things
you can do with there with like how
close terms are that match and in the in
the phrase edge and these kinds of
things. So, uh keep it keep an eye out
for that. If you follow me, software
Doug everywhere, I'm sure I'm going to
repost it.
>> Um
Also, Marius has commented in the chat.
Where is it? Penalty systems in memory
does sound like a a good idea. And I
know, Doug, you've thought about this
with respect to search, kind of hacking
um
among other things, LLMs desire to
please to make them better at search.
>> Yeah. Yeah, this is a
that is the other side and probably the
bulk of that search experiments repo is
hacking like agentic search. So,
one thing I have found is even if you so
agentic search loosely defined is an
agent using some search tools to solve a
user's search problem.
Uh and we
might think of that also kind of like
rag and all these things, but basically
if there's an agent out there, it's got
query,
it has tools like BM25 or some way to
call your elastic search or something.
And it does its best to use these tools
to call them and pull back some search
results, think about them, and try to
give you the best it can give you.
And [clears throat]
agentic search is a like just adding an
agent to any search
is an instant 10% boost.
But what really is cool is
uh to your point Hugo and to what Mario
is saying,
a single like naive LLM judge labeling
results after a single pass of that and
sending it back into the agent as a user
message saying, I didn't I like this, I
didn't like this, just based on that LLM
judge saying trying to assess whether
this
product that came back from your store
is actually relevant for red shoes or
not.
That's actually
I don't it's oddly
amazing how much that improves search.
It's like I'm not using some fancy crazy
model to do the
labeling, the judging. It's like the
same model I use often benchmark things
with GPT-5 something mini.
And um yeah, it's pretty interesting how
just like giving user a user message
back to the agent
uh, the agent really adjusts its
behavior to to to to
account for that in a way it doesn't
adjust its behavior from its own
reasoning.
Um, so there may even be like a meta
point that is maybe worth research if
there's a researcher here.
Will agents take
take reasoning more seriously if it's
like comes in the form of a user
message?
>> Fascinating.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh, Marius has also commented that, you
know, um, Git plus Markdown but grep is
a dumb memory system for auto research
and a lot of other things. It can get
you remarkably
remarkably far.
Um,
>> Yeah.
>> Of course, as we saw though, and we've
discussed this at length, Doug,
just the two of us in in lightning
lessons we've done together,
early on, right? Even like Claude Code,
Boris Cherney, they discovered they were
grepping and they were like, "Actually,
hybrid search and agentic search is is
the way to go with a lot of these
things."
>> Yeah.
Yeah, totally. I think if you have a
What I have tended to find
in my own benchmarking is if you have a
uh, if you have an agent and grep, it
will perform at or slightly better than
if you were to just use BM25 directly
with no agent.
>> Mhm.
>> Uh, it's not like
it on on on relatively small data sets.
So, like, I think the general threshold
is 100,000 documents or less.
Uh,
it's generally
or so far not at the point where
I'm worried about job security because
everyone will just be grepping to
everything.
But, there is a scale and there is a uh,
uh,
I already have an agent in the loop and
I can grep uh, consideration that just
it makes a lot of sense to just use
that.
>> Totally. Well, Doug, thank you so much
for coming and showing us your skills
and workflows. Such a pleasure, man.
And thank you all for
for joining and sticking around. We've
had over we've gone over time, but we've
had, you know, 160 people join
throughout. And so, thank you all for
joining. Thank you for all the wonderful
questions and vibe on Discord as well.
As I mentioned before or Thomas
mentioned, our agentic data science
course starts next week. So, I put a
link in Discord. It's in the YouTube
description as well. And there's a code
there for 10% off. I've also in the
Discord and in YouTube
linked to where you can register for our
next show us your agent skills, which
will Isaac flat from Kentro Tech is
joining.
Matt from
Conductor is is joining. And
the one and the only John Berryman will
be joining as well. And I'm wondering,
John, if you wanted to give us
a teaser at all or the types of things
you're thinking about or what you want
to
show.
>> Yeah, sure. Yeah, so I've been playing
around with PyDev a lot recently.
It came on
um
like a bolt of lightning earlier this
year that the ways that I've built
workflows in the past has been very
bespoke like, you know, bound up with
with
Python if-then statements between model
calls, that type of workflows.
But the the agents last November,
December got good enough that you can
write workflows like in in skills. And
this is kind of revolutionized
everything.
You can use the skills almost like it's
the programming language. So, I made
that cognitive leap and that that's kind
of like one aspect of it.
It's it's very useful because like my
clients can read the code. The code is
English.
Uh but then the next cognitive leap is
like, okay, well, the agent itself is
right now we use an agent harness and
it's bound to like the terminal a lot of
times. It's It's used only for like
software development. Um
I I think we're entering a time or we're
starting to explore what it can do
outside of that broadly. Open Claw
Hermes.
And I want to push that to its limits.
Uh I want my agent to know everything
about me. So, Open Claw Hermes is kind
of like that. But, I also want my agent
to follow me wherever I go. So, it's
available in every website, it's
available in the terminal, it's
available in my software, it's available
in my phone when I walk to different
stores.
And I want it to be aware of the
environment. So, when it goes to all
these different places, it's like, oh,
you're in Lowe's. And so, I can download
the the skill set to know, you know,
where all the products are in Lowe's and
the prices and and I've also know what
you're doing that day. So, like it's
super useful. I built my own facsimile
of it and it's like I'm just using it
all the time.
It's been fun.
>> Amazing. Well, thank you very much for
that teaser.
And can't wait to see your agent skills
and and workflows next month.
This is closing out season one. We've
had four four episodes with a bunch of
really interesting wonderful builders
and looking forward to seeing you all in
a few weeks.
Thank you once again for joining. And in
the famous words of Dr. Dre, see you in
the next episode.